Story Recapped here. Today I'm going to explain
a drama, fantasy, romance, and science fiction
film called "The Time Traveler's Wife."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
In the 1970s, Henry DeTamble is in the backseat
as his mom, Annette, drives while singing to him.
It’s Christmas Eve, and suddenly, a truck skids
out of control and collides with their car.
While they spin out of control, Henry
notices himself slowly fading away.
Confused by it, Annette could not
help but wonder why it's happening.
Henry inadvertently travels two weeks back,
where he sees his parents reading a book to him.
In disbelief, Henry closes his eyes and travels
back to the present, where he sees their car crash
ultimately. Standing naked on the side of a road,
Henry is clothed by a man who claims to be Henry
as an adult. The older Henry comforts his younger
self and introduces the concept of time travel.
Afterward, the older version of him fades into
thin air and arrives at a library where he works.
The thing about his time travels is he ends
up naked in random places where he is drawn.
The following day, a woman named Clare Abshire
recognizes Henry at the library. She gazes at
him in complete amazement, but he has no clue
as to why. Clare informs Henry told her that
"this would happen," but he remains clueless.
Instead, she invites him over to dinner at a local
restaurant so she could go further into detail.
While he gets ready for their meeting, Henry
begins to fade again and ends up in a dark alley.
When he arrives at the time and place he is
currently living, he steals clothes and pick
locks to get by. Unfortunately, he gets cornered
by a police officer after catching him trespass.
But once Henry gets into the vehicle, the
police are stunned after seeing him disappear.
Henry meets with Clare at the restaurant, and she
talks about how she has known him for most of her
life. She brings out a diary where she logs
every time Henry visits her. Henry explains
that he visits certain places a lot because
significant events in his life pull him in,
like gravity. Lovingly, Clare lets him know that
he is her best friend as she feels a sense of
comfort whenever he visits. To end the night, both
of them go over to Henry's place, where they share
an intimate moment. That same night, Clare recalls
her first memory of meeting Henry at the meadow of
her parents' house. She was six years old when she
met an older version of Henry naked in the woods
and gave him a blanket to cover up. Henry explains
to young Clare that he is a time traveler and will
be friends in the future, but the little girl
is skeptical about it. Before he travels back,
Henry tells the little girl that he will
return on Tuesday and asks her if she could
bring clothes for him. Clare remains unconvinced
until she sees him disappear before her eyes.
The following day, Clare finds lipstick inside
Henry's medicine and doubts if their relationship
could last. Despite being happy with him, she had
only known the older, more mature Henry from her
childhood, and Henry right now is in his twenties
and has his faults. Henry assures her that he
is working on himself to be a better person,
developing a deeper relationship with Clare. One
night, she introduces Henry to her best friends,
Charisse and Gomez, who are in a relationship.
Days after, Gomez stumbles upon a brawl in the
streets and finds out that Henry is part of it.
The concerned Gomez breaks the fight
and sees Henry in women's clothing,
explaining that he fought because the other
guy is being discriminatory. Confused about
the whole situation, Gomez questions Henry
about his involvement in the street fight.
Henry finally reveals that he is a time traveler,
but Gomez gets more clueless about the situation.
Seeing Henry fade into thin air, Gomez is
lost for words and finally believes that
he can time travel. As a good friend, Gomez
expresses his concerns to Clare about being
in a relationship with Henry. According
to him, it will not do her any good,
but she defends herself and says that she
has been waiting for him her whole life.
Meanwhile, Henry travels back to the time before
his mother's death, running into her on the train.
He longingly opens a conversation to say that he
is a big fan of her singing and wishes that his
girlfriend could get a chance to hear Annette's
voice. Both of them engage in small talk,
and Annette says that she also has a son
named Henry. Before he leaves the train,
Henry reminds Annette that her son loves
her so much, to which she replies, "I know."
Back to the present, Henry visits his withdrawn
father, Richard, to check on him. Richard was
once a violinist, but he can no longer play due
to his drinking problems and failing health.
Both get into a heated argument about Annette's
engagement ring, which Henry is asking for. The
father and son have not moved on from Annette's
death and still grieve on such a devastating loss.
Before leaving, Richard entrusts the ring to his
son, making amends on their shaky relationship.
The following day, Henry sits by Clare's bed
and contemplates how to open the proposal.
He simply slides his mother's ring on Clare's
finger and asks if she would marry him, to which
she replies with a sweet "yes." After some time,
they prepare for the wedding and make their way to
the Abshires' mansion. Clare's family welcomes
Henry, including her father, who is a hunter.
To initiate a bond between them, Clare's father
invites Henry to go hunting with him one of these
days, and he happily accepts the invitation.
Hours before the ceremony, Henry sees Richard,
which is highly unexpected. He comes to his father
and gives him an embrace just as he gets ready.
As Henry's best man, Gomez stays
with him throughout the preparation
and notices that the groom has disappeared.
Because Henry does not have control over his
travels, so Gomez falls into a state of panic.
With the guests waiting outside, they are in
a critical situation, leaving him frantic.
Out of nowhere, a much older Henry arrives and
wears the tux hurriedly. As if nothing happened,
he arrives at the altar and longingly looks at
Clare while she walks beautifully down the aisle.
She is surprised to see a future version of
Henry with gray hair, but they laugh it off.
At the wedding reception, the present-day Henry
shows up just in time for their first dance. Clare
looks at him with complete admiration as they
dance on stage in front of family and friends.
The new bride and groom then jump on the bed
to celebrate the eventful day on their own.
As they are having fun, Henry disappears
completely, leaving Clare alone in the room
on their honeymoon. Henry arrives at the meadow,
where he finds clothes prepared by the young Clare
for him. He finds Clare having a small picnic in
the open field and is offered a sandwich by the
little girl. She asks him if he is married, and
after saying he is, Clare gets upset. However,
Henry does not reveal that both of them end up
together in the future. Back in the present,
Henry climbs to bed to cuddle and tease Clare
for being jealous of herself when she was young.
As time goes by, Clare and Henry live the
life of a young married couple as they
move into their new apartment. Despite finding
happiness in each other, Henry's time-traveling
puts a strain on their marriage. At times, he
unintentionally leaves Clare for days or weeks,
but the situation is beyond his control. Clare
gets more upset about it as time progresses,
but she willingly agreed to marry him after
all. Both get into an argument because
Henry missed Christmas and New Year's Day,
leaving her lonely during the festive times.
She then leaves for work, claiming that her
new art show is becoming too stressful for her.
That night, Henry waits for Clare outside the
art studio and brings her to a television store.
Inside, they watch the lottery drawing, and Henry
hands Clare a lottery ticket with a set of numbers
that he memorizes. After knowing the numbers that
will be called, they win an astounding amount of
five million dollars. Henry then says, "There are
a lot of downsides to my condition, but this is
not one of them." It is more than enough for them
to purchase a spacious home that would accommodate
Clare's hobby and passion which is painting. At
the new house, Gomez and a pregnant Charisse come
over for dinner. While preparing food, they hear
distant noises from the living room, and as they
check, they could not believe what they see. They
run into a bleeding Henry, who seems to be on the
brink of death, even gasping for air. This version
of Henry is extremely wounded, but he disappears
abruptly. All of them are caught in disbelief,
but the present Henry simply walks away.
Later, Clare and Henry discuss what
they saw, but he seems uninterested,
saying that he has no idea when and how he will
die. She expresses her worries because all her
life, she has never seen an old Henry during
his time travels. It could mean that he died,
but he is also hopeful that he will find a cure in
the near future. Before they end the conversation,
Clare reveals that she is pregnant,
leaving Henry speechless and in tears.
While having a meal at a local restaurant, Clare
feels a tingling pain in her stomach and finds
blood coming out of her. Before she could process
what is happening, another pain strikes her,
and she is brought to the hospital. Henry arrives,
and Clare lets him know that they lost the baby,
thinking that it also time-traveled out of her
womb. Desperate to know more about his condition,
Henry consults a geneticist named Dr.
Kendrick to help him with his problem. The
doctor performs a scan on him, but Henry time
travels again before they could complete it.
Eventually, Clare and Henry meet with Dr. Kendrick
to discuss the findings: Henry's travels are
caused by a genetic chromosome mutation, which
means his child will likely have this problem too.
The doctor recommends some medicine that could
calm the brain and body functions to prevent it.
That night, Henry wakes up to see blood all over
their bed. He wakes Clare to break the news that
she had another miscarriage. The reoccurring loss
is putting too much strain on their relationship,
making them argue more often. All Clare wants
is to be a mother, but Henry's condition is
stopping her from becoming one. This is Henry's
last straw; he does not want to put his wife
through the stress of miscarriage anymore, so
he has a vasectomy. The procedure is done behind
his wife's back, and after the operation, he time
travels. Ending up in the meadow, an 18-year-old
Clare approaches him and is concerned about his
demeanor. Henry apologizes for doing something
she won't like, but he had to do. When the younger
Clare becomes insistent, Henry kisses her hard,
upsetting the young lady because it is their
first kiss, and it does not feel special.
To make up for it, Henry kisses her lovingly
before traveling back to the present.
As he arrives home, he already knows how the
conversation about his vasectomy will end like.
He gathers up all the courage to tell Clare, and
she becomes speechless after hearing it. Henry
explains that he does not want his child to go
through what he experiences, like time-traveling
without warning and being placed in dangerous
situations. Clare is devastated beyond words
and breaks down. She finds it difficult to come
to terms with the fact that she can never have
a child with Henry. That night, the couple sleeps
in separate rooms because of their recent fight.
Shortly after, Clare receives a phone call from
a young Henry who needs help in a parking garage.
When he enters the car, Clare talks to him about
her problems with the future version of him,
and they share an intimate moment.
Back in their home, Clare tells Henry what
happened, and she explains that she did not cheat
on their marriage because it's still him. She also
reveals that she is pregnant again, but she does
not get her hopes up to save herself from being
hurt this time. The couple schedules an ultrasound
appointment where they find out that they are
having a baby girl. According to their doctor,
the baby is perfectly healthy, and they have
nothing to worry about. Clare's current pregnancy
is the longest time she has kept the baby, so she
decides to come up with a name. However, when they
brainstorm for a name for their future daughter,
Henry time travels. He wakes up in a zoo without
any clothing and inside a glass cage, where people
could see him outside. Upon making his way out,
a little girl yells, "Daddy!" so he turns around
and sees her come closer. She hugs Henry and
introduces herself as a 10-year-old Alba, saying
that she misses him so much. At this point, Henry
is taken aback, realizing that Clare's pregnancy
has been successful. Henry and Alba take a walk
outside, where Alba informs Henry that she can
also time travel, but she can control it. Sadly,
she informs her father that he died when she was
just five years old, which upsets him. They part
ways after Alba's teacher calls her back inside.
In the present, Clare gives birth to a healthy
baby girl. She raises her in a happy home full
of love and laughter alongside their other family
members. On Alba's fifth birthday, Henry could not
help but feel uneasy, remembering his conversation
with his daughter in the future. At the same time,
he is preoccupied with preparations for the party
and thoughts of his death, when an older version
of Alba visits. She plays with her younger self
and tells her that Henry's days are numbered.
In a cloudy mood, Alba returns to the house,
making Clare concerned. At the party, she also
sees her daughter talking to Henry as if something
is upsetting Alba—a sight that bothers her all
night. Later, Alba could not keep the secret
any longer and tells her mother that Henry's
death is nearing. Clare accepts this harsh truth
and discusses it with Henry as she comforts him.
The following day, Henry time travels again,
only to return with hypothermia. He is rushed
to the hospital after needing immediate
medical care as he is shrieking in pain.
The worried Clare expresses her concerns
to Dr. Kendrick, saying that he could be
helpless in his travels and die if Henry cannot
run. Later, Henry is confined to a wheelchair,
and Alba comes to him to give tips on how
to control his travels. According to her,
when she feels like fading, she sings to
herself. She practices with Henry, who feels
like he is about to go, but it is ineffective,
and he fades away. Henry wakes up in the snow
and finds out that he will die on New Year's Eve
after seeing a tragic scene inside their house.
Weeks pass and Henry spends his remaining
days with his family during the holidays.
He cherishes every moment he has with his wife
and daughter, who are the most important people
in his life. On New Year's Eve, Claire
and Henry throw a party in their house,
and they gather all their loved
ones together. After saying his
goodbyes to Gomez and thanking him for their
friendship, Henry talks with Clare outside.
She senses that something is amiss and realizes
that Henry's death is just around the corner.
The both of them share their final moment
before the clock hits midnight. As the
fireworks display begins, Henry fades into thin
air, leaving Clare alone on that cold night.
Henry regains consciousness and finds himself in
the snowy woods next to the meadow. He sees a deer
just beside him in the early hours of the day,
which immediately runs away after hearing a voice.
Out of nowhere, a gun fires and hits Henry,
who disappears right at that instant.
From the woods, Clare's father and brother
emerge, who are hunting. They arrive at the
spot where Henry used to lie, which is now covered
in blood. Assuming that they just clipped a deer,
the father and son have no idea that
they accidentally shot Clare's husband.
Back in the present, Henry arrives at
the party, dying and out of breath.
Clare, Alba, and the rest of the guests
run to him and slowly accept his fate.
In his dying breath, Henry tells Clare
how much he loves her. Days pass,
and Clare is still shaken by Henry's passing,
so Alba climbs to bed to comfort her mother.
After some years, a nine-year-old Alba plays with
Gomez and Charisse's kids in the meadow. To her
surprise, Henry comes out of the woods, welcoming
her with a big embrace. The other kids run back
to the house to call Clare as Henry tells Alba how
he met her mother. Without any hesitations, Clare
runs to the meadow and hugs Henry as tight as
she could. She asks Henry why he didn't say he'd
be back in the meadow, to which he replies that
he does not want her to spend her life waiting.
After their passionate kiss, Henry disappears once
again, imprinting a familiar feeling of loss on
her. Clare picks up his clothes, and Alba comes
to her as they leave the meadow peacefully.